~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
STABLE DIFFUSION PROMPTING
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A dictionary would suffice as a universal tool to master prompting for any text input based model.
There are quirks to Stable Diffusion prompting that an give even more control over various aspects
of the image. SD uses a tokenization system like OpenAI, for both services, the structure of the
prompt down to the position of an individual character has an effect on the output, as well as the
total token count, using correct prompt formatting is cheaper.

Braces and double braces are used to emphasise detail within context and also indicate isolation or
subcontext, additional braces increase contextual detail. Square brackets work the same way but
indicate negative context having the opposite effect. Commas are delimiters that parse contextual
elements. Float ratios (and element position) provide a means to weight certain elements over
others, anything above 1.0 is treated with more importance.

For people prompting on a budget, the best way to get around the cost is to be more specific and
prepare prompts before entering them. What ends up costing the most is needing to enter the same
prompt excessively to produce a single result, using keywords and correctly structuring inputs
increases accuracy and saves time. Understanding visual principles is essential regardless of
anything to do with AI and prompting.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
IMAGE PROPERTIES
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

        PHYSICAL & TEMPORAL
            aspect ratio               : Ratio of the width to the height (16:9, 4:3).
            dimensions                 : Width and height of the image in pixels or other units.
            exposure time              : How long the sensor was exposed to light (shutter speed).
            motion blur                : Blurring of moving subjects from shutter speed or panning.
            resolution                 : Refers to number of pixels in an image (1080p, 4K, 8K).
 
        COLOR & TONALITY
            brightness                 : Overall lightness or darkness of the image.
            color depth                : Bits used to represent the color of a pixel.
            color space/model          : Refers to the color formats RGB, CMYK & LAB.
            contrast                   : Difference between darkest and lightest points.
            hue                        : Actual color (red, blue, yellow).
            saturation                 : Intensity or purity of colors.
            white balance              : How natural or fake the image looks.
 
        TEXTURE & DETAIL
            bokeh                      : Quality of blur in out-of-focus areas.
            lighting                   : Direction, quality, and color of light.
            mood                       : Emotion or feeling conveyed by the image.
            noise/grain                : Random variations of color information.
            sharpness                  : The clarity of detail in an image.
            symmetry                   : Balance in the composition.
            texture                    : Perceived surface quality.

        CONTENT & COMPOSITION
            foreground/background      : Elements in front of or behind the main subject.
            framing                    : How subjects are positioned within the image boundaries.
            perspective                : Angle or method by which the images scene is captured.
            rule of thirds             : Guideline dividing the image into nine equal parts.
            subject                    : Main focus or topic of the image.
  
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
PROMPT KEYWORDS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  
        QUALITY TAGS
            award winning              : Piece of work that has won an award.
            blender                    : Open-source 3D game and graphics software.
            masterpiece                : An artists best or most renowned work.
            official art               : Images identified as official art.
            top/best quality           : Highest possible overall quality.
            trending on example.com    : Images trending somewhere.
            unity                      : Cross platform game engine.
            unreal engine              : 3D simulation engine.
 
        KEY ADJECTIVES
            ambient                    : Of environment or atmosphere.
            aesthetic                  : About beauty appreciation.
            beautiful                  : Pleasing aesthetically.
            captivating                : Holds attention, enchanting.
            detailed                   : Showing a lot of tiny parts.
            elaborate                  : Detailed and thorough.
            elegant                    : Beautiful in a graceful way.
            ethereal                   : Extremely delicate, otherworldly.
            gorgeous                   : Stunningly beautiful.
            intricate                  : Detailed or complex design.
            powerful                   : Strong visual or emotional effect.
            striking                   : Draws attention; unusual.
            vibrant                    : Full of energy and life.
            dynamic                    : Changing forces, not static.

        FURTHER IMAGING
            absurdres                  : Extremely high quality res.
            cctv                       : Surveillance cameras.
            cinematic illumination     : Film-inspired lighting.
            cropped                    : Background trimmed to subject.
            dark ambiance              : Low light, somber mood.
            fish-eye                   : Wide-angle spherical image.
            gopro                      : Compact action camera.
            hdr                        : High Dynamic (light) Range.
            highres                    : High quality resolution.
            monochrome                 : One color or shades of one color.
            octane render              : Real-time render engine.
            panorama                   : Wide view of landscape or scenery.
            photorealism               : Mimics real-life imagery.
            polaroid                   : Instant average quality photos.
            precise depiction          : Emphasizes precision.
            professional photograph    : High-quality photo.
            sharp focus                : Clear, crisp detail.
            stockphoto                 : Royalty-free professional photos.
            studio lighting            : Controlled indoor lighting.
            telephoto                  : Magnifies distant subjects.
            tilt shift                 : Selective focus; miniature effect.
            volumetric lighting        : Produces beams, glows.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
PROJECT IDEAS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
 
        ART STYLES
            3d sculpture               : Art from shaping materials.
            anime                      : Japanese animation style.
            canvas painting            : Paints on canvas.
            cartoon                    : Simplified, exaggerated style.
            color splash               : Accentuated colors.
            comic                      : Narratives with illustrations and text.
            concept art                : Visual representation of ideas.
            etching                    : Image incised into surface with acid.
            fractal                    : Infinite geometric patterns.
            graffiti                   : Art on public walls or surfaces.
            manga                      : Japanese comic books.
            matte painting             : Illusory landscapes or scenes.
            oil painting               : Pigments bound in oil.
            pixel art                  : Pixel level art.
            pop art                    : Uses popular/commercial culture.
            sketch                     : Rough drawing of main features.
            watercolor                 : Paints dissolved in water.
 
        SIGNATURE ARTISTS
            alphonse mucha             : Czech Art Nouveau artist.
            andy warhol                : American Pop Art leader.
            artgerm                    : Alias of Stanley Lau, digital artist.
            banksy                     : English street artist.
            claude monet               : Impressionist movement founder.
            greg rutkowski             : Fantasy digital artist.
            jean-michel basquiat       : American neo-expressionist.
            johannes vermeer           : Known for "Girl with a Pearl Earring".
            john singer sargent        : American portrait artist.
            leonardo da'vinci          : "Mona Lisa" Renaissance artist.
            pablo picasso              : Spanish painter, Cubist co-founder.
            salvador dali              : Spanish surrealist.
            vincent van gogh           : Known for "Starry Night".
 
        SUBJECT IDEAS
            animal                     : Non-plant living organism.
            archviz                    : Architectural visualization.
            building                   : Constructed edifice.
            cartoon                    : Art with exaggerated features.
            closeup                    : View taken at close range.
            cyberpunk                  : Futuristic, tech and societal decay.
            fashion                    : Clothing, accessories trends.
            landscape                  : Inland natural scenery depiction.
            portrait                   : Depicts a person.
            postapocalypse             : World post-catastrophe.
            schematic                  : Simplified diagram.
            space                      : Beyond Earths atmosphere.
            sprite                     : 2D image or animation in a scene.
            steampunk                  : Historical with anachronistic tech.
            vehicle                    : Cars, planes, ships.
            sci-fi                     : Futuristic science and technology.
            fantasy                    : Magical and otherworldly themes.
            face                       : Facial features of a subject.
            pose                       : Position or attitude of a subject.
            character                  : Representation of an individual.
            scene                      : Depiction of a specific setting or event.
 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
EXAMPLE BREAKDOWN
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

OPERATORS
  ▸ Comma space (, ): element separation delimiter
  ▸ Single braces ((element)): contextual element/s to include
  ▸ Single brackets [[element]]: contextual element/s to exclude
  ▸ Multiple braces (((element))): detail of the element/s
  ▸ Multiple brackets [[[element]]]: inverse detail of excluded element/s
  ▸ Float ratio (element:1.1): importance of the element/s (reposition)
 
ORDER OF CONTEXT
 1. Quality Tags
 2. Imageing Styles
 3. Image Contents
 4. Negative Prompts 

Its easiest to extend these prompts to their full length to see exactly how theyre working. The
following prompts will generate a high quality fantasy art image of a lady holding daggers. The
first prompt is categorizing elements into the four context forms above, using braces to indicate
the context. The first thing to look for is whats missing or obscured within the content and then
which tags, styles or other contents require more attention.

The second prompt extends upon the first by prioritizing the "full body" element in the image
contents section, and the "bad hands" element in the negative prompts section. Adding weight to
their importance addresses the issue of them being obscured. The third prompt extends upon the
second by emphasizing detail to the "masterpiece" element in the quality tags section, and the
"highres" element in the styles section, which will now look even better.

ELEMENTS WITH CONTEXT

(masterpiece, official art), (highres, fantasy art, 3D portrait, cinematic illumination), (full \
body, beautiful elegant lady, bloody daggers, striking facial expression, elaborate attire, \
powerful presence), [bad face, bad hands]

ELEMENTS WITH CONTEXTUAL IMPORTANCE

(masterpiece, official art), (highres, fantasy art, 3D portrait, cinematic illumination), (full \
body:1.1, beautiful elegant lady, bloody daggers, striking facial expression, elaborate attire, \
powerful presence), [bad face, bad hands:1.1]

ELEMENTS WITH CONTEXTUAL IMPORTANCE AND DETAIL

(((masterpiece)), official art), (((highres)), fantasy art, 3D portrait, cinematic illumination), \
(full body:1.1, beautiful elegant lady, bloody daggers, striking facial expression, elaborate \
attire, powerful presence), [bad face, bad hands:1.1]

MORE SIMPLE EXAMPLES WITH NO ELEMENT PRIORITIZATION

A girl just chillin:

((masterpiece), high quality), ((highres), 3D portrait, rough neighbourhood, realism), (close-up,\
beautiful lady, sitting down, bodega, graffiti, warm atmosphere), [bad face, bad hands, no weed]

Sci-fi baseball bat girl:

((masterpiece), unreal engine), ((highres), 3D portrait, sci-fi art, realism), (full body,\
beautiful lady, (baseball bat), striking facial expression, stylish outfit, city street),\
[bad face, bad hands]

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
